This is the basic POM file of our HelloWorld application that
we just referenced while discussing our source and target
directories to show you the defaults.
There are a lot of things being assumed here.
Remember that conversation around convention over configuration.
We're going to pick this apart some and show you what those defaults are,
and right now, it doesn't say anything about our package structure,
it doesn't say anything about our directory structure,
and that's because we are assuming all of those
defaults that are associated with our POM.
Now our POM file can actually be divided into four basic parts.
We have our project information.
This is really the meat of what we're looking at for our application.
There's things outside of the project,
but really everything we're concerned about is
contained within these project elements.
Let's start with our groupId.
The groupId is often the same as our package,
and that's what's inside of our application.
Packages like com.acme or com.pluralsight,
such as our example here, are commonly what you would use for your groupId.
They designate your business name or your application name as
you would reference it as a web address.
Our artifactId is the same thing as these name of our application.
They're synonymous with one another.
So our application was Hello, capital H,
World, capital W, and that's what our artifact will be named.
It should also be the same as what our element being produced will be named,
and how it's going to be released.
The next thing we care about is our version.
The version is very simply what we want to call it.
So 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, or if it's a maintenance release,
something like 1.0.1,
We're going to dive into the difference between snapshots
versus releases later in this course,
but it's just what we want to name our application,
and they're usually sequential in nature.
The last part of our project is the packaging.
Packaging is how we want to distribute our application.
Is it a JAR, is it a WAR, a RAR, or an EAR file?
These are just some of the common file types associated with Java applications.
We could use the default packaging, which is a jar,
and not specify it inside of our application,
but I've gone ahead and hard coded it in here so that you can see that
it's specifically using a packaging type of JAR. Let's talk about our dependencies next.